CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

If you want to make changes to the schema, start in the `jsonschema` directory where you can edit the JSON files.

Some guidelines for making schema changes:

- Use the most appropriate data type
- Follow existing naming conventions (camelCase)
- Add new fields last to minimise impact on consuming code
- Probably don't add a new field as `required` - this will make the new code unable to read existing messages
- Ideally add a description to any new fields

If you need some advice, drop into the `#committers` channel on the [Cucumber Slack](https://cucumber.io/community#slack) and ask.

## Generating code

The code for various languages is generated from the JSON files. You can clean and regenerate the code with:

```shell
make clean-all generate-all
```

This requires various tooling to be installed on your computer, including Ruby and Node.js. If you're missing some of it, you might find it easier to run a Docker container that has everything:

```shell
docker run --volume $PWD:/app --user 1000 -it cucumber/cucumber-build:latest bash
```

You can then run the same command as noted previously.

### New files

If you're adding a new file to the `jsonschema` directory, you'll need to add a reference to it near the top of the `Makefile` at the root in order for it to be included in the code generation.

## Tests

Some of the language-specific diretories contain some smoke tests to ensure (de)serialization, validation etc are working right. If you happen to change one of the messages that's constructed by these tests, you may need to update them. If you're not sure, raise a draft PR and see what happens in CI.

Commit message:

fix: corrected code Java and PHP code generation using Docker on Windows

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

If you want to make changes to the schema, start in the `jsonschema` directory where you can edit the JSON files.

Some guidelines for making schema changes:

- Use the most appropriate data type
- Follow existing naming conventions (camelCase)
- Add new fields last to minimise impact on consuming code
- Probably don't add a new field as `required` - this will make the new code unable to read existing messages
- Ideally add a description to any new fields

If you need some advice, drop into the `#committers` channel on the [Cucumber Slack](https://cucumber.io/community#slack) and ask.

## Generating code

The code for various languages is generated from the JSON files. You can clean and regenerate the code with:

```shell
make clean-all generate-all
```

This requires various tooling to be installed on your computer, including Ruby and Node.js. If you're missing some of it, you might find it easier to run a Docker container that has everything:

```shell
docker run --volume $PWD:/app --user 1000 -it cucumber/cucumber-build:latest bash
```

For Windows (Powershell):

```shell
docker run --volume  ${PWD}:/app --user 1000 -it cucumber/cucumber-build:latest bash
```

You can then run the same command as noted previously.

### New files

If you're adding a new file to the `jsonschema` directory, you'll need to add a reference to it near the top of the `Makefile` at the root in order for it to be included in the code generation.

## Tests

Some of the language-specific directories contain some smoke tests to ensure (de)serialization, validation etc are working right. If you happen to change one of the messages that's constructed by these tests, you may need to update them. If you're not sure, raise a draft PR and see what happens in CI.
